census/scripts/README.md, before:

####Census Scripts####

This set of tools takes in the URL of the Monroe County Jail Inmate Census, and spits out
a SQLite3 database with all of the inmates and what they were booked for in it.


#####Description#####

These are a set of scripts that will assist in pulling down the Monroe County Jail Inmate 
Census, Parse the PDF document into human readable text, format that text in a way that 
removes erroneous data, and finally parse out all of the inmates as well as their booking 
data and put it in an SQLite3 database. 


#####Example Output#####

![ScreenShot](http://i.imgur.com/mn45RtI.png)


#####How To Use It#####

To have the tools spit out a SQLite3 database with the currently available census data, just
execute the following:

    # python census.py

That will spit out a inmates.db SQLite3 database based on the currently available file found
here: http://www2.monroecounty.gov/sheriff-inmate


#####Dependancies#####

I suggest running in a virtual enviornment, and then pip install the following:

     pip install beautifulsoup4

     pip install pdfminer

Those are the only two non-python2.7 packages used in the project.


#####Files#####


    pullpdf.py
        This file containts the pullpdf() function which will pull down the latest census 
        PDF document from the Monroe County website and convert it to human readable text.
        This file also handles removal of unused header and footer data, as well as reformats
        some of the booking data so it is easier to consume farther down the line.

    pullinmates.py
        This file contains the pullinmates() function which will pull all of the inmates
        and the raw version of all of their booking data out of the converted and formatted
        PDF document.

    parseinmate.py
        This file is the last step where the row data is parsed and placed into an array of
        inmate classes so it can be used down stream.

    census.py
        The entry point to the scripts shown above.  This script pulls down the latest census
        file and pushes all of it's contents into a sqlite3 database for easy querying and 
        over all use.


These files were purposly broken out as such to make portability easier.  There are some 
helper functions within each script - so feel free to dive in and see how they work!

Commit message:

updated readme to reflect change over to MySQL

census/scripts/README.md, after:

####Census Scripts####

This set of tools takes in the URL of the Monroe County Jail Inmate Census, and spits out
a SQLite3 database with all of the inmates and what they were booked for in it.


#####Description#####

These are a set of scripts that will assist in pulling down the Monroe County Jail Inmate 
Census, Parse the PDF document into human readable text, format that text in a way that 
removes erroneous data, and finally parse out all of the inmates as well as their booking 
data and put it in an SQLite3 database. 


#####How To Use It#####

To have the tools spit out a SQLite3 database with the currently available census data, just
execute the following:

    # python census.py

That will spit out a inmates.db SQLite3 database based on the currently available file found
here: http://www2.monroecounty.gov/sheriff-inmate


#####Dependancies#####

I suggest running in a virtual enviornment, and then pip install the following:

     pip install beautifulsoup4
     pip install pdfminer

Those are the only two non-python2.7 packages used in the project.


#####Files#####


    pullpdf.py
        This file containts the pullpdf() function which will pull down the latest census 
        PDF document from the Monroe County website and convert it to human readable text.
        This file also handles removal of unused header and footer data, as well as reformats
        some of the booking data so it is easier to consume farther down the line.

    pullinmates.py
        This file contains the pullinmates() function which will pull all of the inmates
        and the raw version of all of their booking data out of the converted and formatted
        PDF document.

    parseinmate.py
        This file is the last step where the row data is parsed and placed into an array of
        inmate classes so it can be used down stream.

    getinmates.py
        This file pulls all of the of the inmats together using the three above files.  It reaturns
        a large array of tuples that have all of the inmate and booking data in them.

    census.py
        The entry point to the scripts shown above.  This script pulls down the latest census
        file and pushes all of it's contents into the MySQL database using the sql2api db access
        layer.


These files were purposly broken out as such to make portability easier.  There are some 
helper functions within each script - so feel free to dive in and see how they work!


#####Database#####

The database was created to split out as much of the data as possible for running simple and easy 
queries.  The largest table is the bookings table, however each table can and will hold interesting
information.  You can checkout how the database is created by looking at the db cration script here:

https://github.com/thequbit/mc_sheriff_inmate_info/blob/master/census/db/create_db.sql
